Describe Actions / Functions in service POJOs (#539)
cap-js/docs: java/application-services.md

[Actions](../cds/cdl#actions) and [Functions](../cds/cdl#actions) enhance the API provided by an Application Service with custom operations. They have well-defined input parameters and a return value, that are modelled in CDS.
Actions or functions are handled - just like CRUD events - using event handlers. To trigger an action or function on an Application Service an event with the action's or function's name is emitted on it.

Actions and functions are therefore implemented through event handlers. For each action or function an event handler of the [`On`](provisioning-api#on) phase should be defined,
which implements the business logic and provides the return value of the operation, if applicable. The event handler needs to take care of [completing the event processing](provisioning-api#eventcompletion).
### Implement Event Handler

> The [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating event-specific Event Context interfaces for the action or function, based on its CDS model definition. These Event Context interfaces give direct access to the parameters and the return value of the action or function.

Reviewer: I think the hint about the Event Context interfaces should not have been removed. It is still useful to know that and gives more context where the `ReviewEventContext` in the code sample below comes from.

Author: The hint still exists in line 288:

Besides that, the `cds-maven-plugin` generates also event-specific event context interfaces for the action or function, based on its CDS model definition. These event context interfaces give direct access to the parameters and the return value of the action or function.
For bound actions or functions the event context interface provides a [CqnSelect](query-api#select) statement, which targets the entity the action or function was triggered on.

> The CAP Java runtime doesn't provide any default `On` handlers. Actions and functions are therefore implemented through event handlers. For each action or function an event handler of the [`On`](provisioning-api#on) phase should be defined, which implements the business logic and provides the return value of the operation, if applicable. The event handler needs to take care of [completing the event processing](provisioning-api#eventcompletion). If an action or function is __bound to an entity__, the entity needs to be specified while registering the event handler. The following example shows how to implement an event handler for an action:

Reviewer: > The CAP Java runtime doesn't provide any default `On` handlers.

This sentence could be misunderstood that CAP Java doesn't provide any `On` handlers at all. Maybe we should rephrase this a little bit to make sure this can not be understood as a general statement. Not sure if it is important to mention that at all or to simply state that custom coding needs to provide a On handler.

Author: will rephrase this section a bit: https://github.com/cap-js/docs/pull/572

Actions and functions are therefore implemented through event handlers. For each action or function an event handler of the [`On`](provisioning-api#on) phase should be defined,
which implements the business logic and provides the return value of the operation, if applicable. The event handler needs to take care of [completing the event processing](provisioning-api#eventcompletion).

> As of version 2.4.0, the [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating specific interfaces for services in the CDS model. These service interfaces are providing Java methods for actions and functions modeled on the service. These methods allow direct access to the action / functions parameters and they can be easily called by custom Java code to trigger them. If an action or function is bound to an entity, the first argument of the method is an entity reference providing the required information to address the entity instance.

Reviewer: I think it is important to separate those two concerns clearly in the docs:
- How to implement an action
- How to call an action programmatically

Maybe we can separate that into two distinct sections with separate headlines. Maybe with a common introduction section, that describes an example model.

> As of version 2.4.0, the [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating specific interfaces for services in the CDS model. These service interfaces are providing Java methods for actions and functions modeled on the service. These methods allow direct access to the action / functions parameters and they can be easily called by custom Java code to trigger them. If an action or function is bound to an entity, the first argument of the method is an entity reference providing the required information to address the entity instance.

Author: Ok, I will start with two sections in this chapter with different headlines. Than we can decide whether to keep both in this document or split them into 2 documents.

> As of version 2.4.0, the [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating specific interfaces for services in the CDS model. These service interfaces are providing Java methods for actions and functions modeled on the service. These methods allow direct access to the action / functions parameters and they can be easily called by custom Java code to trigger them. If an action or function is bound to an entity, the first argument of the method is an entity reference providing the required information to address the entity instance.

Author: Added two headers for the different aspects: implementation and consumption

}
```

The event handler registration and implementation is as follows:

```java
@Component
@ServiceName(CatalogService_.CDS_NAME)
public class CatalogServiceHandler implements EventHandler {

    @On(event = "review", entity = Books_.CDS_NAME)
    public void reviewAction(ReviewEventContext context) {
        CqnSelect selectBook = context.getCqn();
        Integer stars = context.getStars();
        Reviews review = [...] // create the review
        context.setResult(review);
    }

}
```

> ### Trigger Action or Function

Reviewer: It would have been great if the docs here would have also been aligned or removed: https://pages.github.tools.sap/cap/docs/java/consumption-api#customevents.
Currently they are a little bit in contrast to what we now describe here..

```java
@CdsName(CatalogService_.CDS_NAME)
public interface CatalogService extends CqnService {

  @CdsName(ReviewContext.CDS_NAME)
  Reviews review(Books_ ref, @CdsName(ReviewContext.STARS) Integer stars);

  interface Application extends ApplicationService, CatalogService {
  }

  interface Remote extends RemoteService, CatalogService {
  }
}
```

In the custom handler class, the specific service interface can be injected as it is already known for generic service interfaces:

```java
  ...
  @Autowired
  private CatalogService catService;
  ...
```

Now, just call the review action from custom handler code:

```java
  ...
  private void someCustomMethod() {
    String bookId = "myBookId";
    Books_ ref = CQL.entity(Books_.class).filter(b -> b.ID().eq(bookId));
    this.catService.review(ref, 5);
  }
  ...
```

Besides that, the `cds-maven-plugin` generates also event-specific event context interfaces for the action or function, based on its CDS model definition. These event context interfaces give direct access to the parameters and the return value of the action or function.

> For bound actions or functions the event context interface provides a [CqnSelect](query-api#select) statement, which targets the entity the action or function was triggered on.

Reviewer: Ah here it still is. Maybe move up to the implementation part, as this is where the context is relevant now :)

Author: ok, not sure where to put it exactly.

}
```

The corresponding generated Java service interface:

```java
@CdsName(CatalogService_.CDS_NAME)
public interface CatalogService extends CqnService {

  @CdsName(ReviewContext.CDS_NAME)
  Reviews review(Books_ ref, @CdsName(ReviewContext.STARS) Integer stars);

  interface Application extends ApplicationService, CatalogService {
  }

  interface Remote extends RemoteService, CatalogService {
  }
}
```

In the custom handler class, the specific service interface can be injected as it is already known for generic service interfaces:

```java
  ...
  @Autowired

>   private CatalogService catService;

Author: :-)

  ...
```

Now, the review action can be easily called from custom handler code:

```java
  ...
  private void someCustomMethod() {
    String bookId = "myBookId";
    Books_ ref = CQL.entity(Books_.class).matching(Books.create(bookId));
    this.catService.review(ref, 5);
  }
  ...
```

> Event Handler implementation:

Author: fixed.

> Event Handler implementation:

Author: added this info

```java
@Component
@ServiceName(CatalogService_.CDS_NAME)
public class CatalogServiceHandler implements EventHandler {

    @On(event = "review", entity = Books_.CDS_NAME)
    public void reviewAction(ReviewEventContext context) {
        CqnSelect selectBook = context.getCqn();
        Integer stars = context.getStars();
        Reviews review = [...] // create the review
        context.setResult(review);
    }

}
```

> Beside that, the `cds-maven-plugin` generates also event-specific Event Context interfaces for the action or function, based on its CDS model definition. These Event Context interfaces give direct access to the parameters and the return value of the action or function.

Author: fixed.

}
```

2. The event handler registration and implementation

```java
@Component
@ServiceName(CatalogService_.CDS_NAME)
public class CatalogServiceHandler implements EventHandler {

    @On(event = "review", entity = Books_.CDS_NAME)
    public void reviewAction(ReviewEventContext context) {
        CqnSelect selectBook = context.getCqn();
        Integer stars = context.getStars();
        Reviews review = [...] // create the review
        context.setResult(review);
    }

}
```

### Trigger Action or Function

> As of version 2.4.0, the [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating specific interfaces for services in the CDS model. These service interfaces are providing Java methods for actions and functions modeled on the service. These methods allow direct access to the action / functions parameters and they can be easily called by custom Java code to trigger them. If an action or function is bound to an entity, the first argument of the method is an entity reference providing the required information to address the entity instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of version 2.4.0, the [CAP Java SDK Maven Plugin](./development/#cds-maven-plugin) is capable of generating specific interfaces for services in the CDS model. These service interfaces are providing Java methods for actions and functions modeled on the service. These methods allow direct access to the action or functions parameters and they can be easily called by custom Java code to trigger them. If an action or function is bound to an entity, the first argument of the method is an entity reference providing the required information to address the entity instance.
```

> For the CDS model above, the corresponding generated Java service interface will look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the CDS model above, the corresponding generated Java service interface looks like the following:
```

}
```

> To trigger the action or function, the event context needs to be filled with the parameter values and emitted on the service:

Reviewer: Maybe explain when you would do it like that? -> I think now this is only really useful for generic code, that doesn't work with typed interfaces at all. Not sure, if we still need to mention that approach.

Author: Added this hint about generic code.

}
```

> Event Handler implementation:

Author: fixed
